American Mafia

The American Mafia (or simply the Mafia in the United States), also known as (informally called cosa nostra early by their own members) or La Cosa Nostra (Joe Valachi announced the name, and the "La" part is what the FBI has given the name as well, even abbreviating to LCN), which in Italian means Our Thing or This Thing of Ours, is an Italian-American criminal society and offshoot of the Sicilian Mafia. Much like the Sicilian Mafia, the American Mafia had no formal name and is a secret criminal society. The press has also coined the name "National Crime Syndicate" to refer to the entirety of U.S. organized crime, including the Mafia.

The Italian-American Mafia emerged in New York's Lower East Side and other areas of the East Coast of the United States during the late 19th century following waves of Sicilian and Italian immigration. It has its roots in the Sicilian Mafia, but has been a separate organization in the United States for many years. Neapolitan, Calabrian, and other Southern Italian criminal groups merged with the Sicilian Mafia to create the modern pan-Italian Mafia in North America. Today, the Italian-American Mafia cooperates in various criminal activities with the Sicilian Mafia and other Italian organized crime groups, such as Camorra and 'Ndrangheta.

According to the FBI investigations and the testimony of former members, there are thought to be five main New York City Mafia families: the Gambino, Lucchese, Genovese, Bonanno and Colombo families. The Italian-American Mafia continues to dominate organized crime in the U.S. It uses this status to maintain control over much of Chicago, Detroit, Boston, Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Milwaukee, Cleveland, Philadelphia, Providence, New Jersey, and New York City's organized criminal activity, as well as criminal activity in other cities in the Northeastern United States and across the country, such as Las Vegas, New Orleans, Phoenix, St. Louis, Miami, Kansas City and many others.

In 1986, according to government reports, it was estimated that there were 500 members of Cosa Nostra and thousands of associate members. Reports also are said to include the Italian-American Mafia as the largest organized crime group in the United States and continues to hold dominance over the National Crime Syndicate, despite the increasing numbers of street gangs and other organizations of neither Italian nor Sicilian ethnicity. Many members refer to the Italian Mafia as the "original Mafia".

While each crime family operates independently, nationwide coordination is provided by the Commission, which usually consist of the bosses of each major family.

Although the Italian-American Cosa Nostra is most active in the New York metropolitan area, Philadelphia, New England, Detroit and Chicago, but there are at least 26 cities around the United States with Cosa Nostra families, with many more offshoots, splinter groups and associates in other cities.

There have been times when crime families had gone to war with each other including the Mafia-Camorra War and the Castellammarese War. Before the Outfit took control of Chicago, they were constantly battling other gangs, most notably the North Side Mob, during the prohibition era, eventually leading to the notorious St. Valentine's Day Massacre. Another war was between Joe Profaci and "Crazy" Joe Gallo. An internal war within a family occurred with the Bonanno Family dubbed "The Banana War".
