Himalayas

The Himalaya Range or Himalayas for short, meaning "abode of snow" in Sanskrit ('Him' means snow and 'Alaya' means house or abode), is a mountain range in Asia, separating the Indian subcontinent from the Tibetan Plateau. By extension, it is also the name of a massive mountain system that includes the Karakoram, the Hindu Kush, Tian Shan, Kunlun and other, lesser, ranges extending out from the Pamir Knot.

The Himalayan mountain system is the planet's highest and home to the world's highest peaks, the Eight-thousanders, which include Mount Everest and K2. To comprehend the enormous scale of this mountain range consider that Aconcagua, in the Andes, at 6,962 m (22,841 ft), is the highest peak outside Asia, whereas the Himalayan system includes over 100 mountains exceeding 7,200 metres (23,622 ft).

The Himalayan system, which includes various outlying subranges, stretches across six countries: India, Bhutan, China, Afghanistan, Nepal, and Pakistan. Some of the world's major rivers, the Brahmaputra, the Ganga, the Indus, Yamuna and the Yangtze, rise in the Himalayas, and their combined drainage basin is home to approximately 1.3 billion people. The Himalayas have profoundly shaped the cultures of South Asia; many Himalayan peaks are sacred in both Hinduism and Buddhism.

The main Himalaya range runs west to east from the Indus river valley to the Brahmaputra river valley, forming an arc 2,400 km (1,490 mi) long, which varies in width from 400 km in the western Kashmir-Xinjiang region to 150 km in the eastern Tibet-Arunachal Pradesh region. The range consists of coextensive sub-ranges. A transect north from the Indo-Gangetic Plain would first cross the ~800 meter Siwaliks (also called Churia or Outer Himalaya), then the ~2,000 meter Mahabharat Range (or Lesser Himalaya) and some 100 km of ranges of similar stature called Pahad (hill country) before reaching the Great or Inner Himalayas often consisting of several parallel ranges well over 6,000 meters. There may be a final ~6,000 meter range forming the ultimate watershed between the Indian subcontinent and Tibetan Plateau.
