History of the Netherlands

During the period of the Roman Empire, areas south of the Rhine were included in the province of Gallia Belgica, and later of Germania Inferior. The country was inhabited at the time by various Germanic tribes, and the south was inhabited by Gauls, who merged with newcomers from other Germanic tribes during the migration period. The Salian Franks migrated to Gaul from this region, establishing by the 5th century the powerful Merovingian dynasty.

In the medieval period, the Low Countries along the North Sea, from Calais up to and including parts of Germany (Ost-Fryslan), consisted of various counties and dioceses belonging to the Dukes of Brabant and Burgundy and to the Holy Roman Empire. Charles V 's predecessors never were able to conquer or subdue the Frisians and Geldersen. This was left to said Western Successor to the Holy Roman Empire and so unification into one state took place under Habsburg rule, in 1540. The Counter-Reformation reacting to the rise of Calvinism in the Netherlands and the attempts to centralise government and suppress the heresy led to a revolt against Charles' son, Philip II of Spain.

Or, so goes the Calvinist story. From a Southern, Roman Catholic, as well as from a Marxist point of view, the revolt started in 1566, with hunger-riots in the Flemish and Brabants cities against artificial famine, created by the grain-merchants. It was a German, Erich Kuttner who finally got this story out during the Second World War, against the Hollands-centric nationalistic - Protestant censors who had until then reigned supreme, for more than two centuries in his book Het Hongerjaar 1566. Erich Kuttner died in KZ Mauthausen. His book could not appear until after the war.

The work explains how the richest merchants traded heavily with the Oostzee countries but left the goods, including basic food, in their Flemish warehouses to drive up prices. The people's revolt against bourgeois, king and clergy was swiftly taken over by the smaller Lords. Most fled to the North, where Habsburg troops were less in number, and started the fight there. In doing so, they became the frontmen for the rise of the Northern cities and the Dutch fleet that empowered colonialism. Around 1600, the Netherlands were considered a country, but it was not until 1648, with the Treaty of Muenster, that the North and Spain formally made peace. The war-years with its piracy and robbery marked the beginning of the Dutch Golden Age, a period of great commercial and cultural prosperity roughly spanning the 17th century and driven by great migrations from the South to the North. For the South, Antwerpen, 's Hertogenbosch and Brussel to begin with, it was the beginning of a dark age. On 26 July 1581, the North seceded from the South and the Habsburg King in Spain, independence was declared and finally recognised internationally after the Eighty Years' War (1568-1648). But the largest part of the country was still under foreign rule. 1795 brought the North back under foreign rule, this time French. This occupation lasted until Waterloo in 1815.

In 1815 the old Netherlands were restored by the Vienna Congress, this time as a monarchy governed by the House of Orange. However, after a conservative period, strong liberal sentiments could no longer be ignored, and the country became a parliamentary democracy with a constitutional monarch from 1840 - 1848. Once again, the country was split between the seafaring, colonial North and the industrial South. Belgium was created by international intervention and became an independent monarchy.

From here on in, the history of the modern Kingdom of the Netherlands starts. International trade in one of the largest colonial empires of the Modern Era has long been a central aspect of the Dutch economy, also influencing its cultures. The Empire was an important reason for the struggle for independence and cause of the ensuing wealth. It also caused several wars with its closest competitor, England.

The Netherlands has remained a trading nation to this day but because of post-WWII decolonization also had to develop into a modern, industrialised nation.
