Honshu

Honshu (literally "Main State") is the largest island of Japan. The nation's main island, it is south of Hokkaido across the Tsugaru Strait, north of Shikoku across the Inland Sea, and northeast of Kyushu across the Kanmon Strait. It is the seventh largest island in the world, and the second most populous after Java in Indonesia.

The island is roughly 1,300 km long and ranges from 50 to 230 km wide, and its total area is 227,962.59 km2, 60% of the total area of Japan. It is larger than the island of Great Britain, and slightly larger than the state of Minnesota. Its area has been expanding with land reclamation and coastal uplift in the north, but global sea level rise have diminished these effects. Honshu has 5,450 km of coastline.

Mountainous and volcanic, Honshu has frequent earthquakes (the Great Kanto earthquake heavily damaged Tokyo in September 1923); the highest peak is the active volcano Mount Fuji at 3,776 m, which makes it the world's 7th highest island. There are many rivers, including the Shinano River, Japan's longest. The climate is temperate, but has marked difference between the eastern or southern (Pacific or Inland Sea coast) side, and the western or northern (Sea of Japan coast) side. A mountain range runs along the length of Honshu from end to end. In addition to Mt. Fuji, the Japanese Alps are features of Honshu.

It has a population of 103,000,000 in 2005, (98,352,000 as of 1990; in 1975 it was 89,101,702), mostly concentrated in the available lowlands, notably in the Kanto plain where 25% of the total population reside in the Greater Tokyo Area, which includes Tokyo and Yokohama, Kawasaki, Saitama and Chiba cities. Most of the nation's industry is located along the belt running from Tokyo along Honshu's southern coastal cities, including Kyoto, Osaka, Nagoya, Kobe, and Hiroshima, part of the Taiheiyo Belt.

The economy along the northwestern coast by the Sea of Japan is largely fishing and agriculture; Niigata is noted as an important producer of rice. The Kanto and Nobi plains produce rice and vegetables. Yamanashi is a major fruit-growing area, and Aomori is famous for its apples.

Eminent historical centers include Kyoto, Nara, and Kamakura.

The island is nominally divided into five regions and contains 34 prefectures, including metropolitan Tokyo. The regions are Chugoku (western), Kansai (southern, east of Chugoku), Chubu (central), Kanto (eastern), and Tohoku (northern). Some smaller islands are included within these prefectures, most prominently Ogasawara Islands, Sado Island, Izu Oshima and Awaji Island.
