Mandarin Chinese

Mandarin (pinyin: Guanhua; literally "speech of officials" or traditional Chinese, pinyin: Beifanghua; literally "northern dialect(s)"), is a category of related Chinese dialects spoken across most of northern and south-western China. When taken as a separate language, as is often done in academic literature, the Mandarin language has more native speakers than any other language. The "standard" in Standard Mandarin refers to the official standardized language of China based on the Beijing dialect.

"Mandarin" is also a general term describing, in particular, an official of Imperial China or a similar system.

In English, Mandarin can refer to either of two distinct concepts:

- In everyday use Mandarin refers to Standard Chinese or Standard Mandarin (Putonghua / Guoyu / Huayu), which is based on the particular Mandarin dialect spoken in Beijing. Standard Mandarin functions as the official spoken language of the People's Republic of China (PRC), the official language of the Republic of China (ROC/Taiwan), and one of the four official languages of Singapore. "Chinese"--in practice Standard Mandarin--is one of the six official languages of the United Nations.

- In its broader sense, Mandarin is a diverse group of Mandarin dialects spoken in northern and southwestern China (Guanhua / Beifanghua / Beifang fangyan).

The use of Mandarin as indicating a grouping of northern Chinese dialects is defined and used mainly by linguists, and is not commonly used outside of academic circles. Instead, Chinese native speakers of forms of Mandarin other than Standard Mandarin typically do not describe the language they speak as "Mandarin" (pinyin: Guanhua or traditional Chinese, pinyin: Beifanghua; literally "Northern Dialect)"), but rather are most likely to simply state the name of the geographic variant that they speak, for example Sichuan dialect, Hebei dialect or Northeastern dialect, considered distinct from "Standard Mandarin" (Putonghua). Native speakers who are not academic linguists may not recognize that the variants they speak are classified in linguistics as members of Mandarin ("Northern Dialects") in a broader sense. Within Chinese social or cultural discourse, there is not a common "Mandarin" identity based on language; rather, there are strong regional identities centred on individual dialects, because of the wide geographical distribution and cultural diversity of speakers.

As with all other varieties of the Chinese language, there is significant dispute as to whether Mandarin is a language or a dialect.
