Photoreceptor cell

A photoreceptor cell is a specialized type of neuron found in the eye's retina that is capable of phototransduction. The great biological importance of photoreceptors is that they convert light (electromagnetic radiation) into signals that can stimulate biological processes. More specifically, photoreceptor proteins in the cell absorb photons, triggering a change in the cell's membrane potential.

The two classic photoreceptor cells are rods and cones, each contributing information used by the visual system to form a representation of the visual world, sight. The rods are narrower than the cones and distributed differently across the retina, but the chemical process in each which supports phototransduction is similar. A third class of photoreceptor cells was discovered during the 1990s: the photosensitive ganglion cells. These cells do not contribute to sight directly, but are thought to support circadian rhythms and pupillary reflex.

There are major functional differences between the rods and cones. Rods are extremely sensitive, and can be triggered by a very small number of photons. At very low light levels, visual experience is calculated solely from the rod signal. This explains why colors cannot be seen at low light levels: only one type of photoreceptor cell is active.

Cones require significantly brighter light (i.e. a larger numbers of photons) in order to produce a signal. In humans there are three different types of cone cell, distinguished by their pattern of response to different wavelengths of light. Color experience is calculated from these three distinct signals, perhaps via an opponent process. The three types of cone cell respond (roughly) to light of short, medium, and long wavelengths. Note that due to the principle of univariance the firing of the cell depends only upon the number of photons absorbed. The different responses of the three types of cone cells are determined by the likelihoods that their respective photoreceptor proteins will absorb photons of different wavelengths. So, for example, an L cone cell contains a photoreceptor protein which more readily absorbs long wavelengths of light (i.e. more "red"). Light of a shorter wavelength can also produce the same response, but it must be much brighter to do so.

The human retina contains about 120 million rod cells and 5 million cone cells. The number and ratio of rods to cones varies among species, dependent on whether an animal is primarily diurnal or nocturnal. Certain owls have a tremendous number of rods in their retinas -- the eyes of the tawny owl are approximately 100 times more sensitive at night than those of humans. There are about 1.3 million ganglion cells in the human visual system; 1 to 2% of them are photosensitive.

Invertebrate photoreceptors in organisms such as insects and molluscs are different in both their morphological organization and their underlying biochemical pathways.
