Republic of Ireland

Ireland (Irish: Eire), described as the Republic of Ireland (Irish: Poblacht na hEireann), is a country in northwestern Europe. The modern sovereign state occupies about five-sixths of the island of Ireland, which was partitioned into two jurisdictions on 3 May 1921. It is a parliamentary democracy and a republic. It is bordered to the northeast by Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom, and is otherwise surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean: particularly, the Irish Sea to the east, St George's Channel to the southeast, and the Celtic Sea to the south.

The state, initially named the Irish Free State, was established in 1922, as a dominion within the British Commonwealth, and gained increasing sovereignty through the Statute of Westminster and the abdication crisis of 1936. A new constitution was introduced in 1937 that declared an entirely sovereign state and named it simply as Ireland. In 1949 the last formal link with the UK was severed when Ireland declared itself a republic and formally ceased to be a dominion: consequently it left the then British Commonwealth, having already ceased to participate in that organisation for several years.

During British rule and initial independence Ireland was one of the poorest countries in Western Europe and had high emigration, but in contrast to many other states in the period remained financially solvent as a result of low government expenditure. The protectionist economy was opened in the late 1950s and Ireland joined the European Economic Community (now the European Union) in 1973. An economic crisis led Ireland to start large-scale economic reforms in the late 1980s. Ireland reduced taxation and regulation dramatically compared to other EU countries.

Ranked as the 31st economic power in the world, by 2006 Ireland had the sixth highest gross domestic product per capita and the eighth highest per capita considering purchasing power parity, although by 2008 the country was being linked to the PIGS economies, and has the fifth highest Human Development Index rank in the world. The country also has the highest quality of life in the world, ranking first in the Economist Intelligence Unit's Quality-of-life index. Ireland was ranked sixth on the Global Peace Index. Ireland also has high rankings for its education system, political freedom and civil rights, press freedom (ranked first in 2009) and economic freedom (ranked fourth in 2009); it is also ranked fifth from bottom on the Failed States Index, being one of the most "Sustainable" states in the world. Ireland is a member of the EU, the OECD, and the United Nations.
