Slovenia

Slovenia, officially the Republic of Slovenia (Slovene: Republika Slovenija), is a country in Central Europe touching the Alps and bordering the Mediterranean. Slovenia borders Italy on the west, the Adriatic Sea on the southwest, Croatia on the south and east, Hungary on the northeast, and Austria on the north. The capital and largest city of Slovenia is Ljubljana. Slovenia covers an area of 20,273 square kilometres and has a population of 2.06 million. Around 40% of Slovenia's land mass is elevated land - mostly in the form of mountains and plateaus - which is located in the interior regions of the country. The highest point of Slovenia is the 2,864 metres (9,396 ft) high Mount Triglav, the lowest point is the Adriatic Sea at sea level. The majority of the population speaks Slovene which is also the country's official language. Other local protected official languages are Hungarian and Italian.

Slovenia is a relatively modern geographical and political entity: the notion first emerged in the 19th Century with the idea of United Slovenia, an autonomous region that would unite all Slovene-inhabited territories in the Austrian Empire. Slovenia was first established as a political entity after World War Two, as an autonomous republic (state) within the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; its current borders were established in 1954 after the abolition of the Free Territory of Trieste. During its history, the current territory of Slovenia was part of the Roman Empire; the Ostrogothic Kingdom; the Byzantine Empire; the principality of Carantania (only modern Slovenia's northern part); the Frankish Kingdom; the Holy Roman Empire; the Republic of Venice (only the coastal area); the Kingdom of Hungary (only the eastern part); the Habsburg Monarchy; the Austrian Empire (later known as Austria-Hungary); the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes (renamed to Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929); the Kingdom of Italy (only the western part); between the two World Wars it was occupied and or annexed by Germany, Italy, Hungary, and the Independent State of Croatia (1941-1945); and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 1945 until recent independence in 1991.

Slovenia is a member of the European Union, the Eurozone, the Schengen area, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, the Council of Europe, NATO, UNESCO, WTO, and UN (As of 2010, Slovenia and Slovakia are the only former Communist nations to be part of all of these institutions simultaneously). Per capita, it is the richest Slavic nation-state, and is 88.3% of the EU27 average GDP (PPP) per capita.
