The Tempest

The Tempest is a play by William Shakespeare, estimated to have been written in 1610-11, although some researchers have argued for an earlier dating. The play's protagonist, Prospero, has been usurped by his brother Antonio and the King of Naples Alonso. Prospero, the rightful Duke of Milan, and his daughter Miranda have been put into a tiny boat and sent away to an island far away from humanity. Before the exile, food, clean water and Prospero's books were all put on the boat by the King's counsellor, Gonzalo. When he comes ashore at the island, Prospero finds three inhabitants there: Ariel, a spirit, Caliban, presumed to be Ariel's brother, and their mother, Sycorax. When Prospero reached the island Sycorax was already dead and he frees Ariel from being trapped in a pine tree. Throughout the play, Prospero uses this act of liberty as blackmail against Ariel. For the next twelve years, Prospero practices his Dark Arts, ultimately raising a tempest that drives his usurpers ashore. The entire play takes place on an island under his control, where the native inhabitants, Ariel and Caliban, aid or hinder his work. While listed as a comedy when it was initially published in the First Folio of 1623, many modern editors have since re-labelled the play as one of Shakespeare's late romances.

No obvious single source has been found from which Shakespeare may have derived the plot of the play. The play does seem to draw on several then-contemporary accounts of shipwrecks in the New World, however, as well as the works of Michel de Montaigne and Ovid's Metamorphoses. The play's basic structure reflects that of the then-popular Italian commedia dell'arte. It is one of two Shakespearean plays which follow the neoclassical three unities (the other is The Comedy of Errors). During the 1950s and 1960s, The Tempest attracted much attention from post-colonial critics for its portrayal of Ariel's and Caliban's reactions to foreign control of their island.

It did not attract a significant amount of attention before the closing of the theatres in 1642, and only attained popularity after the Restoration, and then only in adapted versions. In the mid-19th century, theatre productions began to reinstate the original Shakespearean text and, in the 20th century, critics and scholars undertook a significant re-appraisal of the play's value, to the extent that it is now considered to be one of Shakespeare's greatest works.
