The Big Bang Theory

The Big Bang Theory is an American sitcom created by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady, both of whom serve as executive producers on the show, along with Lee Aronsohn and Steve Molaro, who are two of the head writers. It premiered on CBS on September 24, 2007.

Set in Pasadena, California, the show is centered on five characters: two roommate geniuses who work at the California Institute of Technology, experimental physicist Leonard Hofstadter and theoretical physicist Sheldon Cooper; their neighbor across the hall Penny, a blonde waitress and aspiring actress; and Leonard and Sheldon's equally geeky and socially awkward co-workers and friends Howard Wolowitz, an aerospace engineer and a non-PhD from JPL, and Rajesh Koothrappali, an astrophysicist also working at Caltech. The geekiness and intellect of the four guys is contrasted for comic effect with Penny's social skills and common sense. Three other supporting characters have also been promoted to main cast status for a few episodes: Leslie Winkle, a Caltech colleague and ex-lover of both Leonard and Howard; Bernadette Rostenkowski, a microbiology graduate who has worked with Penny part-time as a waitress, dated and recently become engaged to Howard, and earned her PhD; and Amy Farrah Fowler, a neurobiologist who was hooked up with Sheldon via an online dating service (courtesy of Howard and Raj, who were later horrified when Amy turned out to be essentially a female version of Sheldon).

The show is produced by Warner Bros. Television and Chuck Lorre Productions. In August 2009, the sitcom won the best comedy series TCA award and Jim Parsons won the award for individual achievement in comedy. In 2010, the show won the People's Choice Award for Favorite Comedy, while Parsons won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series. On January 16, 2011, Parsons was awarded a Golden Globe by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association for Best Performance by an Actor In A Television Series - Comedy Or Musical, an award that was presented by co-star Kaley Cuoco.

When the third season premiered on September 21, 2009, it ranked as CBS's highest-rated show of that evening in the adults 18-49 demographic (4.6/10), along with a then series-high 12.83 million viewers. On May 19, 2010, it was announced that CBS would be moving the show to Thursdays at 8:00 ET for the 2010-2011 schedule. On January 12, 2011, CBS announced that the show had been renewed for an additional three years, extending it through the 2013-2014 season.
