     "The night is fine," the Walrus said
      "Do you admire the view?

     "It was so kind of you to come!
      And you are very nice!"
     The Carpenter said nothing but
      "Cut us another slice:
     I wish you were not quite so deaf--
      I've had to ask you twice!"

     "It seems a shame," the Walrus said,
      "To play them such a trick,
     After we've brought them out so far,
      And made them trot so quick!"
     The Carpenter said nothing but
      "The butter's spread too thick!"

     "I weep for you," the Walrus said.
      "I deeply sympathize."
     With sobs and tears he sorted out
      Those of the largest size.
     Holding his pocket handkerchief
      Before his streaming eyes.

     "O Oysters," said the Carpenter.
      "You've had a pleasant run!
     Shall we be trotting home again?"
      But answer came there none--
     And that was scarcely odd, because
      They'd eaten every one.'

'I like the Walrus best,' said Alice: 'because you see he was a LITTLE sorry for the poor oysters.'

'He ate more than the Carpenter, though,' said Tweedledee. 'You see he held his handkerchief in front, so that the Carpenter couldn't count how many he took: contrariwise.'

'That was mean!' Alice said indignantly. 'Then I like the Carpenter best--if he didn't eat so many as the Walrus.'

'But he ate as many as he could get,' said Tweedledum.

This was a puzzler. After a pause, Alice began, 'Well! They were BOTH very unpleasant characters--' Here she checked herself in some alarm, at hearing something that sounded to her like the puffing of a large steam-engine in the wood near them, though she feared it was more likely to be a wild beast. 'Are there any lions or tigers about here?' she asked timidly.

'It's only the Red King snoring,' said Tweedledee.

'Come and look at him!' the brothers cried, and they each took one of Alice's hands, and led her up to where the King was sleeping.

'Isn't he a LOVELY sight?' said Tweedledum.

Alice couldn't say honestly that he was. He had a tall red night-cap on, with a tassel, and he was lying crumpled up into a sort of untidy heap, and snoring loud--'fit to snore his head off!' as Tweedledum remarked.
