Anschluss

The Anschluss (German for "link-up"), also known as the  Anschluss Oesterreichs, was the occupation and annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany in 1938.

Austria was annexed to the German Third Reich on 12 March 1938. There had been several years of pressure from Germany and there were many supporters within Austria for the "Heim ins Reich"-movement, both Nazis and non-Nazis. Earlier, Nazi Germany had provided support for the Austrian National Socialist Party (Austrian Nazi Party) in its bid to seize power from Austria's Austrofascist leadership.

Devoted to remaining independent but under considerable pressure from both German and Austrian Nazis, Austria's Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg tried to hold a referendum for a vote on the issue. Although Schuschnigg expected Austria to vote in favour of maintaining autonomy, a well-planned coup d'etat by the Austrian Nazi Party of Austria's state institutions in Vienna took place on 11 March, prior to the referendum, which they canceled.

They transferred power to Germany, and Wehrmacht troops entered Austria to enforce the Anschluss. The Nazis held a plebiscite within the following month -asking the people to ratify what had already been done. They claimed to have received 99.73 percent of the vote in favor.

Although the Allies were committed to upholding the terms of the treaties of Versailles and St. Germain, which specifically prohibited the union of Austria and Germany, their reaction was only verbal and moderate. No fighting ever took place and even the strongest voices against the annexation, particularly Fascist Italy, France and the United Kingdom (the "Stresa Front") remained at peace.

The Anschluss was among the first major steps in Adolf Hitler's creation of an empire including German-speaking lands and territories which Germany had lost after World War I, although Austria had never been a part of the (in 20th-century terms) German state. Prior to the 1938 annexation, Germany had remilitarized the Rhineland, and the Saar region was returned to Germany after 15 years of occupation through a plebiscite. After the Anschluss, Germany invaded Czechoslovakia on 1939 to take control of the industrial Sudetenland, which had a predominantly ethnic German population, and made the rest of the nation a protectorate. That same year, Memelland was returned from Lithuania.

Austria ceased to exist as a fully-independent nation until late 1945. A Provisional Austrian Government was set up on 27 April 1945, and was legally recognized by the Allies in the following months. It was not until 1955 that Austria regained full sovereignty.
