George Washington

George Washington (February 22, 1732 - December 14, 1799)  was the dominant military and political leader of the new United States of America from 1775-1797, leading the American victory over Britain in the American Revolutionary War as commander in chief of the Continental Army, 1775-1783, and presiding over the writing of the Constitution in 1787. As the unanimous choice to serve as the first president (1789-97), he developed the forms and rituals of government that have been used ever since, and built a strong, well-financed national government that avoided war, suppressed rebellion and won acceptance among Americans of all types. Acclaimed ever since as the "Father of his country," Washington, along with Abraham Lincoln (1809-65), has become a central icon of champion of republican values, self sacrifice in the name of the nation, American nationalism and the ideal union of civic and military leadership.

Born into a wealthy family in Westmoreland County, Virginia, Washington embarked upon a career as a owner of plantation that used slaves to grow tobacco for export. In 1749 he was appointed to surveyor of newly created Culpeper County, and through his half-brother Lawrence Washington he became involved in the Ohio Company, which had as its object the exploitation of Western lands. After Lawrence's death (1752), Washington inherited part of his estate. Always wanting a military career, Washington gained command experience during the French and Indian War (1754-1763) and was a senior colonel in the colonial militia with responsibility for protecting the frontier. Due to this experience, his military bearing, leadership of the Patriot cause in Virginia, and his political base in the largest colony, the Second Continental Congress chose him in 1775 as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army.

He forced the British out of Boston in 1776, but was defeated and nearly captured later that year when he lost New York City. By crossing the Delaware River in the dead of winter he defeated the British, taking them by surprise, in Trenton, New Jersey. Because of his strategy, Revolutionary forces captured the two main British combat armies at Saratoga and Yorktown. Negotiating with Congress, the colonial states, and French allies, he held together a tenuous army and a fragile nation amid the threats of disintegration and failure. Following the end of the war in 1783, rather than holding onto power, Washington resigned, returning to his plantation at Mount Vernon; prompting George III to call him "the greatest character of the age".

Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution in 1787 because of general dissatisfaction with the Articles of Confederation. Washington became President of the United States in 1789 and established many of the customs and usages of the new government's executive department. He sought to create a nation capable of sustaining peace with their neighboring countries. His unilateral Proclamation of Neutrality of 1793 provided a basis for avoiding any involvement in foreign conflicts. He supported plans to build a strong central government by paying off the national debt, implementing an effective tax system, and creating a national bank. Washington avoided war and maintained a decade of peace with Britain upon signing the Jay Treaty in 1795, despite intense opposition from the Jeffersonians. Although never officially joining the Federalist Party, he supported its programs. Washington's farewell address was a primer on republican virtue and a stern warning against partisanship, sectionalism, and involvement in foreign wars. Washington died in 1799. Henry "Light-Horse Harry" Lee, delivering the funeral oration, declared Washington "first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen". Federalists made him the symbol of their party. Historical scholars consistently rank him as one of the two or three greatest presidents.
