Spanglish

Spanglish refers to the blend of English and Spanish, in the speech of people who speak parts of two languages, or whose normal language is different from that of the country where they live. For example, the Hispanic population of the United States and the British population in Argentina use varieties of Spanglish. Sometimes the creole spoken in Spanish holiday resorts which are exposed to both Spanish and English is called Spanglish. The similar code switching used in Gibraltar is called Llanito. Spanglish may also be known by a regional name. Some people tend to believe that the "Tex-Mex" spoken in Texas, is also Spanglish, which is not the case; neither is the case of the "Ladino" spoken in New Mexico, because both are language varieties of Mexican Spanish.

Spanglish is not a pidgin language. It is totally informal; there are no hard-and-fast rules.

There is no clear demarcation between Spanglish and simple bad Spanish or English. "Parquear" for "to park" is clear deliberate Spanglish; "actualmente" for "actually" rather than "at present" is closer to erroneous use of a false friend, and ambiguous as it has a clear, but different, meaning in true Spanish. However, implications present themselves. Spanglish does not mean half and half words - it means half and half sentences or overall speaking ability, but researchers seem to infer which code (language) students should be using, with those who mostly speak Spanish being labeled as Limited English Proficient at best, and those that prove they can switch codes on their own and use that half and half mixture are considered bilingual. Some parents of native Spanish speaking students may wish their children to be taught in pure Spanish, that is without English at all. Some say bilingual education is preferable, but others say the best way to educate Spanish speaking students is to completely immerse them in English as soon as possible. The longer students remain in a bilingual program, the greater their chances are of staying there.
