Upper class

In social science the upper class is the group of people at the top of a social hierarchy. Members of an upper class may have great power over the allocation of resources and governmental policy in their area, but only to the extent that the power of the state can intervene in free exchange or distort investment. This expression of class refers to access to power through the state, religious orders and the marketplace. A free market exchange is one potential expression of society, which features spontaneous unfettered exchange between or among individuals of leisure, goods, ideas and the artifacts of culture. Under these idealized conditions, the consumer has decided the apportionment of the success to any upper class, a status that is fluid and as vulnerable to failure as to success. Without special access to the political means of acquiring or allocating wealth, and useful only if the state has exceeded its proper role, the upper classes have no especial power except maybe as mere swindlers. They are, in the marketplace, constrained to offer value to the consumer, and are just as vulnerable to the vicissitudes of consumer whim or other qualifications, as any other "group." The consumer as always controls to what extent and for how long an unscrupulous operator endures in the marketplace. Consumers are especially empowered with the advent of modern communications to expose fraud. Under systems that allocate the power of decision to the state, the upper class takes on a sinister role as it seeks to allocate rewards and failures, and status, based on special interests and the access to the use of coercion the state).

In the market economy, a fluid upper class develops parallel to its success in serving the needs/wants of consumers. In primitive societies, upper classes seek status through the facilities of the state to secure security, status and wealth.

The phrase "upper class" has had a complex range of meanings and usages. In many traditional societies, membership of the upper class was hard or even impossible to acquire by any means other than being born into it.
