FAIRY, n. A creature, variously fashioned and endowed, that formerly inhabited the meadows and forests. It was nocturnal in its habits, and somewhat addicted to dancing and the theft of children. The fairies are now believed by naturalist to be extinct, though a clergyman of the Church of England saw three near Colchester as lately as 1855, while passing through a park after dining with the lord of the manor. The sight greatly staggered him, and he was so affected that his account of it was incoherent. In the year 1807 a troop of fairies visited a wood near Aix and carried off the daughter of a peasant, who had been seen to enter it with a bundle of clothing. The son of a wealthy _bourgeois_ disappeared about the same time, but afterward returned. He had seen the abduction been in pursuit of the fairies. Justinian Gaux, a writer of the fourteenth century, avers that so great is the fairies' power of transformation that he saw one change itself into two opposing armies and fight a battle with great slaughter, and that the next day, after it had resumed its original shape and gone away, there were seven hundred bodies of the slain which the villagers had to bury. He does not say if any of the wounded recovered. In the time of Henry III, of England, a law was made which prescribed the death penalty for "Kyllynge, wowndynge, or mamynge" a fairy, and it was universally respected.

FAITH, n. Belief without evidence in what is told by one who speaks without knowledge, of things without parallel.

FAMOUS, adj. Conspicuously miserable.

  Done to a turn on the iron, behold
      Him who to be famous aspired.
  Content? Well, his grill has a plating of gold,
      And his twistings are greatly admired.

Hassan Brubuddy


FASHION, n. A despot whom the wise ridicule and obey.

  A king there was who lost an eye
      In some excess of passion;
  And straight his courtiers all did try
      To follow the new fashion.

  Each dropped one eyelid when before
      The throne he ventured, thinking
  'Twould please the king. That monarch swore
      He'd slay them all for winking.

  What should they do? They were not hot
      To hazard such disaster;
