Armit Huff Bettle


FROG, n. A reptile with edible legs. The first mention of frogs in profane literature is in Homer's narrative of the war between them and the mice. Skeptical persons have doubted Homer's authorship of the work, but the learned, ingenious and industrious Dr. Schliemann has set the question forever at rest by uncovering the bones of the slain frogs. One of the forms of moral suasion by which Pharaoh was besought to favor the Israelities was a plague of frogs, but Pharaoh, who liked them _fricasees_, remarked, with truly oriental stoicism, that he could stand it as long as the frogs and the Jews could; so the programme was changed. The frog is a diligent songster, having a good voice but no ear. The libretto of his favorite opera, as written by Aristophanes, is brief, simple and effective--"brekekex-koax"; the music is apparently by that eminent composer, Richard Wagner. Horses have a frog in each hoof--a thoughtful provision of nature, enabling them to shine in a hurdle race.

FRYING-PAN, n. One part of the penal apparatus employed in that punitive institution, a woman's kitchen. The frying-pan was invented by Calvin, and by him used in cooking span-long infants that had died without baptism; and observing one day the horrible torment of a tramp who had incautiously pulled a fried babe from the waste-dump and devoured it, it occurred to the great divine to rob death of its terrors by introducing the frying-pan into every household in Geneva. Thence it spread to all corners of the world, and has been of invaluable assistance in the propagation of his sombre faith. The following lines (said to be from the pen of his Grace Bishop Potter) seem to imply that the usefulness of this utensil is not limited to this world; but as the consequences of its employment in this life reach over into the life to come, so also itself may be found on the other side, rewarding its devotees:

  Old Nick was summoned to the skies.
      Said Peter:  "Your intentions
  Are good, but you lack enterprise
      Concerning new inventions.

  "Now, broiling in an ancient plan
      Of torment, but I hear it
  Reported that the frying-pan
      Sears best the wicked spirit.

  "Go get one--fill it up with fat--
      Fry sinners brown and good in't."
  "I know a trick worth two o' that,"
      Said Nick--"I'll cook their food in't."

FUNERAL, n. A pageant whereby we attest our respect for the dead by enriching the undertaker, and strengthen our grief by an expenditure that deepens our groans and doubles our tears.

  The savage dies--they sacrifice a horse
  To bear to happy hunting-grounds the corse.
  Our friends expire--we make the money fly
  In hope their souls will chase it to the sky.

Jex Wopley
