Pele

Edison Arantes do Nascimento, KBE (born 23 October 1940), best known by his nickname Pele, is a retired Brazilian football player. He is widely regarded by polls among football experts, former players and fans (FIFA made Maradona share the title with him when fans voted him as best player of the century) as the greatest footballer of all time.

In his native Brazil, Pele is hailed as a national hero. He is known for his accomplishments and contributions to the game of football. He is also acknowledged for his vocal support of policies to improve the social conditions of the poor (when he scored his 1,000th goal he dedicated it to the poor children of Brazil). During his career, he became known as "The King of Football" (O Rei do Futebol), "The King Pele" (O Rei Pele) or simply "The King" (O Rei).

Spotted by football star Waldemar de Brito, Pele began playing for Santos at 15 and his national team at 16, and won his first World Cup at 17. Despite numerous offers from European clubs, the economic conditions and Brazilian football regulations at the time benefited Santos, thus enabling them to keep Pele for almost two decades until 1974. Pele played as an inside forward, striker, and what later became known as the playmaker position. Pele's technique and natural athleticism have been universally praised and during his playing years he was renowned for his excellent dribbling and passing, his pace, powerful shot, exceptional heading ability, and prolific goalscoring.

He is the all-time leading scorer of the Brazil national football team and is the only footballer to be a part of three World Cup-winning squads. In 1962 he was on the Brazilian squad at the start of the World Cup but because of an injury suffered in the second match, he wasn't able to play the remainder of the tournament. In November 2007 FIFA announced that he would be awarded the 1962 medal retroactively, making him the only player in the world to have three World Cup winning medals.

Since his retirement in 1977, Pele has been a worldwide ambassador for football and has undertaken various acting roles and commercial ventures.
