Scrubs (TV series)

Scrubs is an American television series created in 2001 by Bill Lawrence and produced by ABC Studios. The show follows the lives of several employees of the fictional Sacred Heart, a teaching hospital. It features fast-paced screenplay, slapstick, and surreal vignettes presented mostly as the daydreams of the central character, Dr. John "J.D." Dorian, who is played by Zach Braff. The ninth season saw the transition from Braff as the central character to Kerry Bishe, who plays Lucy Bennett. The show's title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking or insignificant person (at the beginning of the show, most of the main characters were medical interns, one of the lowest ranks in the medical hierarchy).

Alongside Braff, the first eight seasons of the show featured Sarah Chalke, Donald Faison, Neil Flynn, Ken Jenkins, John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes in starring roles. In the ninth season, only Braff, Faison and McGinley were listed as regular cast members, while the rest, with the exception of Reyes, made guest appearances. Braff appeared in six episodes of the ninth season before departing. The ninth season also sees many new cast members introduced and shifts the show's setting from a hospital to a medical school. Kerry Bishe, Eliza Coupe, Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series regulars, with Bishe becoming the show's new narrator.

A complete script was written for each episode of Scrubs; however, actors are given opportunities to improvise their lines during the shooting process. The series has featured multiple guest appearances by film actors not generally seen on episodic television, such as Brendan Fraser, Ryan Reynolds, Heather Graham, and Colin Farrell.

Scrubs premiered on October 2, 2001 on NBC. It received a Peabody Award in 2006 for "fearlessly smashing traditional comic formulas, all the while respecting the deepest emotional and moral issues of its life-and-death setting." During the seventh season, NBC announced that it would not renew the show. Shortly after the seventh season finale, ABC announced that it had picked up the series for a new season and on January 6, 2009, the eighth season of Scrubs premiered on ABC. The ninth season, which premiered on December 1, 2009 on ABC, features several new cast members and is set at a new facility. On May 14, 2010, it was announced that Scrubs was officially canceled by ABC.
