Yangtze River

The Yangtze River, or Chang Jiang (literally "The Long River"; Tibetan: 'Bri-chu), is the longest river in China and Asia, and the third-longest in the world. The river is about 6,300 kilometres (3,915 mi) and flows from its source in Qinghai Province, eastwards into the East China Sea at Shanghai. It acts as a dividing line between North and South China, although geographers generally consider the Qinling-Huai River line to be the official line of geographical division. As the largest river in the region, the Yangtze is historically, culturally, and economically important to China. One of the dams on the river, the Three Gorges Dam, is the largest hydro-electric power station in the world. The section of the river flowing through deep gorges in Yunnan province is part of the Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas: a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

The name Yangtze River, as well as other similar names such as Yangtse River, Yangzi River and Yangtze Kiang, is derived from Yangzi Jiang. The name supposedly comes from the ancient ferry crossing Yangzi Jin (meaning "Yangzi Crossing"). From the Ming Dynasty, the name was sometimes written (yangzi). Because it was the name first heard by missionaries and traders, this name was applied in English to the whole river. The modern Chinese name, Chang Jiang, literally means "Long River". (Jiang is the classical Chinese for river.) and may sometimes also be used in English. It is also known to many as the 'Main Street' of China.

Like many rivers, the river is known by different names over its course. At its source, it is called in Chinese the Dangqu (from the Tibetan for "marsh river"). Downstream, it is called the Tuotuo River and then the Tongtian River (literally "river passing through heaven"). Where it runs through deep gorges parallel to the Mekong and the Salween before emerging onto the plains of Sichuan, it is known as the Jinsha River (Jinsha Jiang, literally "golden sands river"). The Three Gorges Dam on the river is the largest dam in the world.

The Yangtze was earlier known to the Chinese as simply Jiang, which has become a generic name meaning "river", or the Da Jiang (literally "great river"). The Tibetan name for the river is Drichu (Wylie: 'bri chu, lit. "river of the female yak"). The Yangtze is sometimes referred to as the Golden Waterway.
