DRACULA

A Mystery Story

by

Bram Stoker

1897 edition

How these papers have been placed in sequence will be made manifest in the reading of them. All needless matters have been eliminated, so that a history almost at variance with the possibilities of latter-day belief may stand forth as simple fact. There is throughout no statement of past things wherein memory may err, for all the records chosen are exactly contemporary, given from the standpoints and within the range of knowledge of those who made them.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER

  1  Jonathan Harker's Journal
  2  Jonathan Harker's Journal
  3  Jonathan Harker's Journal
  4  Jonathan Harker's Journal
  5  Letter From Miss Mina Murray To Miss Lucy Westenra
  6  Mina Murray's Journal
  7  Cutting From "The Dailygraph", 8 August
  8  Mina Murray's Journal
  9  Letter, Mina Harker To Lucy Westenra
 10  Letter, Dr. Seward To Hon. Arthur Holmwood
 11  Lucy Westenra's Diary
 12  Dr. Seward's Diary
 13  Dr. Seward's Diary
 14  Mina Harker's Journal
 15  Dr. Seward's Diary
 16  Dr. Seward's Diary
 17  Dr. Seward's Diary
 18  Dr. Seward's Diary
 19  Jonathan Harker's Journal
 20  Jonathan Harker's Journal
 21  Dr. Seward's Diary
 22  Jonathan Harker's Journal
 23  Dr. Seward's Diary
 24  Dr. Seward's Phonograph Diary
 25  Dr. Seward's Diary
 26  Dr. Seward's Diary
 27  Mina Harker's Journal


CHAPTER 1


Jonathan Harker's Journal

(Kept in shorthand)

3 May. Bistritz.--Left Munich at 8:35 P.M., on 1st May, arriving at Vienna early next morning; should have arrived at 6:46, but train was an hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse which I got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible.

The impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering the East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, which is here of noble width and depth, took us among the traditions of Turkish rule.

We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh. Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale. I had for dinner, or rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which was very good but thirsty. (Mem. get recipe for Mina.) I asked the waiter, and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along the Carpathians.
