Mollusca

Mollusks belong to the animal phylum Mollusca. There are around 93,000 recognized extant species, making it the largest marine phylum containing about 23% of named marine organisms. Representatives live in marine, freshwater, and terrestrial habitats. Mollusk are highly diverse: in size; in anatomical structure; in behaviour and in habitat.

The phylum is typically divided into nine or ten taxonomic classes, of which two are extinct. The gastropods (snails and slugs) include by far the most classified species, accounting for 80% of the total. Cephalopod molluscs such as squid, cuttlefish and octopus are among the most neurologically advanced invertebrates. Either the giant squid or the colossal squid is the largest known invertebrate species.

Molluscs have diverse body structures. The two most universal characteristics are a mantle with a significant cavity used for breathing and excretion, and the structure of the nervous system. As a result, many textbooks base their descriptions on a hypothetical "generalized mollusc", with features common to many, but not all species.

There is good evidence for the appearance of gastropods, cephalopods and bivalves in the Cambrian period 542 to 488.3 million years ago. However the evolutionary history both of molluscs' emergence from the ancestral Lophotrochozoa and of their diversification into the well-known living and fossil forms are still vigorously debated.

Molluscs have long been an important human food source. However there is a risk of food-poisoning from toxins that accumulate in molluscs under certain conditions, and many countries have regulations that aim to minimize this risk. Molluscs have for centuries also been the source of important luxury goods, notably pearls, mother of pearl, Tyrian purple dye, and sea silk. Their shells have also been used as money in some pre-industrial societies.

Mollusc species can also present as hazards or pests humans. Blue-ringed octopus bites are often fatal, and Octopus apollyon bites can cause inflammation that lasts longer than one month. Stings from a few species of large tropical cone shells can also kill. Their sophisticated though easily-produced venoms have also become important tools in neurological research. Schistosomiasis (also known as bilharzia, bilharziosis or snail fever) is transmitted to humans via water snail hosts, and affects about 200 million people. Snails and slugs can also be serious agricultural pests, and accidental or deliberate introduction of snail species into new environments has seriously damaged some ecosystems.
